Initial RFC (#1)
flea89/goldigger: planning/rfc.md

> # Golddigger RFC

Reviewer: I like the general approach - do we plan on having something more specified or not really at this stage? (I'm not suggesting we do, just checking what your idea was here). 

In general, I think one missing aspect is the "how do we report failures" or, more specifically, how do we report back to go to URL xyz to action the error? 
I can imagine multiple solutions:
* Add a comment to the MR/PR with a link to the service
* Just add it to the pipeline logs
* Change the MR/PR description explaining what is going on

For a minimal implementation, I'd suggest just using link in logs (e.g. "Visit golddigger.dev/project/123/failure/1234567 or similar)

This is a first attempt to define and get initial feedback on Golddigger.

# Summary

> Goldigger is a product meant to help streamlining Golden Testing workflow, especially when it comes CI/CD. But more in general

Reviewer: IMPORTANT 🤣! Are we spelling it with a single "d" (Goldigger, as here) or with double d? (as the title/repo name)

unify the workflow for teams.

> The goal is to be able to easily run tests, review and approve them throw a easy-to-use web intergace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The goal is to be able to easily run tests, review and approve them through an easy-to-use web intergace.
```

> # Problem it solved

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Problem it solves
```

- There are unfortunately still subtle differences between generated golden images on different host platforms, Golddigger allows to run tests on a single platform (on CI/CD pipelins) removing this problem
- Approval and re-submission of golden test can be lengthy, Goldigger unifies the process in one place

# Goal

Goal of Goldigger:

- Resolve problems stated above

> - Should be easy to be self hosted and run on major paas (GCP, AWS and Azure)

Reviewer: Just to clarify, by self-hosting do we mean "deploy to your PaaS of choice" or self-host-in-the-raspberry-pi-you-have-in-the-basement? I think they're both plausible, but worth clarifying :)

Author: meant on premises or your rasp indeed :P 
Updated to make it more clear

> # Proposed Solution (MVP)

Reviewer: I think before this is finalised we should have more details here? 
Even if we're not speccing out the API details, it'd be good, at least at high level, to outline the workflow

My first attempt here:
* Pipeline runs golden tests with tooling of choice (language/framework dependant)
* On success, do nothing
* On failure, code in the pipeline uploads, as a single HTTP request, the images before and after + some git metadata (e.g. commit hash, PR/MR id, branch name, ....) 
* The services replies with a URL which, when visited, provides users with a UI that allows them to
   * Reject the change (confirm the failure - e.g. we actually introduced a regression, we should fix our code, not the golden) -> this is prob not essential, but feels like it'd be nice to have - could be used to prune old data, etc...
   * Accept the change (we made a change that changed the UI as it should have, golden needs updating)
 * If the change is accepted, then some TBD mechanism allows users to update goldens in the repo, ideally in the same branch/MR as the original trigger
 * Once the change is applied (e.g. upstream has the new goldens) we should let the service know, so it can mark the change as applied and potentially do some clean up
 
 
 As I write this, I'm starting to feel like some kind of cli tool could be useful to simplify some of these tasks (e.g. CI -> Golddigger and Dev Laptop -> Golddigger)

Author: Moved in

The first MVP should be as encapsulated as possible should allow to

- Allow for easy integration from major CI/CD tools. To start with Gitlab and Github
- A webservice exposes a deeplink that allows to
  - Get a list of broken golden and their images: pre, post and changes
  - Approve changes. In practice commit new golden test assets.
- Allow

> ## Not in MVP

Reviewer: Do we want the service to send emails? :)

Author: do we need one?

Reviewer: let's say no for now - if we need to, we could probably just assume an SMTP server (third party services like sendgrid provides you with SMTP-compatible APIs)

> - Multi-Project support (one instance per project)

Reviewer: Happy to keep this out for this version, but feel like should be the very next thing we look at

Reviewer: After some rethinking, I'm not 100% convinced things will be much more simplified if we assume 1 app instance = 1 project - e.g. projects will need configuration (git repo, access tokens, etc...)
If we stick those in a db, we have a clear structure to start from - if not, we may end up with messy configs that we'll need to scrap anyway once we do implement multi-project?

Author: I agree, but I wonder if we should architecture this to work but ignore the ui complications for it.

Reviewer: Oh, sorry - yeah, 100% - I was only thinking about data-modelling - f**k the UI 👅

Author: Updated to make this clearer

- Project mgmt like
  - Beeing able to see previous runs

# Technical challenges

> How do we get multi-cloud support?

Reviewer: Things to consider:
* Database choice (some flavour of SQL would seem the most ubiquitous, but potentially not as scalable (or as cheap, for a small project, depending on cloud provider) as some noSQL alternatives. Cost may be lowered by using a local db service (or sqlite) but that would require a persistent VM, and would exclude a more serverless approach (e.g. Cloud Run and friends)
* Ease of deployment: I'd imagine if we provided a container image it would be pretty straightforward to deploy anywhere? I like the idea of just having a single image that could potentially be made to scale horizontally super easily - but conscious that it might be unrealistic if we start adding additional services (e.g. redis)

## Webframework

Web frameworks in general shouldn't be a challenge. Any major one should work fine. ie Django Next.

> My current preference would currently be NextJS to allow a mix of server side and client side rendering.

Reviewer: Just to confirm, you're suggesting a single Next.js server which also provides the APIs? 
If that's the case, we might want to add vercel to the list of platform we support :)

Author: Agreed, added

## Storage

Use cloud solutions like Google Cloud storage and S3, with a custom layer of abstraction should be fine.

## Database

I don't have lot of experience having to run the same service on multiple Paas.

> Having something like Postgres seems like the most obvious solution, given most paas seem to support it.

Reviewer: I'd suggest at least considering Mongo - primarily for cost reasons. Firestore now supports (a subset of) mongodb APIs, and aws has documentdb. I think pricing for those is in general quite cheap, so that's great. 

Overall, I think we'd want to to keep this abstracted away as much as possible - given there's a bit of a push currently to move back to "on premise" and self-hosting, a completely different approach would be to run this in a single VM (EC2, ComputeEngine, but also your cupboard raspberry pi) with an off-the-shelf db (which, if you're not a large organization, could very well be a local sqlite db!)

Author: yeah, I was thinking about MongoDB as well.
I am not entirely sold on the fact that we should use Firestore/documentdb, I'm worried that if we use an ORM like prisma the fact that they support only a subset of the APIs might break things? Maybe mongoDb atlas is a better option?

Anyway, This defo needs lots of thinking, a small techspike  and it's own design doc. 
I'll add the concept here though.

Reviewer: Fair point, I don't know which mongo features Prisma relies on (but AFAIK,  AWS documentdb is fully compatible with mongo)

Since you mention this should be a separate RFC (which I don't necessarily disagree with) how do we plan on moving forward? My assumption was that, once we're happy with this one, we can start implementing a minimal MVC - which seems unlikely if we don't know which DB we're using? 👅

Author: I suggest a quick tech spike to look into this and define the database layer ?

We can put together a quick NextJs scaffold, and as part of the same tech spike we define the DB layer (ORM) we'd use. 
We should try to deploy it to aws, gcp and vercel and improve our confidence we've picked the right solution?

wdyt?

Author: MongoDB Atlas seems to fit our needs for now. 
As discussed offline, since we're using Prisma we should probably run tests on sql/postgres as well, so that those could be used as well.

As documented Prisma wouldn't work neither on Firestore nor AWS documentdb

- Isn't much more expensive that other solutions like datastore on gcp?

## Logging

> Something like Sentry could be a good solution and easy to integrate

Reviewer: I like the concept of having good logging - but am also concerned this adds to both the complexity and cost of an "easy to deploy" solution. I think it needs to either be configurable, or we should start with system logging

Author: Yeah this should definitively be configurable. I'll add some blurbs. 

Am I right assuming the no logging solutions is suitable for on premise only? how would you check logs on cloud?

Reviewer: I _think_ cloud providers typically provide a way to inspect system logs (via some additional configuration) - so if you use standard logging tool, you should be able to see it, say GCP cloud logging

## Async tasks

> A Redis Queue on a dockerize worker can be deployed anywhere.

Reviewer: I'd personally leave async tasks, especially with Redis, outside of this initial RFC - let's keep the system simple, reduce the number of things that be configured and orchestrated - and keep costs down

Author: Agree

# Authentication

TBD

## CI/CD

> We need to define what we expose to various CI/CD

Reviewer: Also worth considering some kind of CLI tool maybe (prob not essential, but might make building the request and handling the response from the service easier)

I haven't looked yet into it, but probably

- Github action
- Gitlab template.

# Questions

> - is it worth using something like terraform to define and manage infrastructure?

Reviewer: I think the answer is yes as soon as we find ourselves needing more than 1 service

Author: Moved in to consider.
